now the World Health Organization has
adopted a resolution urging immediate
humanitarian aid for Gaza it's warned
the health system in the Gaza Strip is
collapsing and it cannot afford to lose
one more ambulance or hospital bed the
who executive board held an emergency
session earlier on Sunday to discuss the
growing Health crisis in the Palestinian
territories now the work of the heal
workers is impossible and they're
directly in the firing
line since the 7th of October wh has
verified more than 449 attacks on
healthare in Gaza and the West
Bank and 60 attacks in on healthare in
Israel nowhere and no one is safe in
Gaza as more and more people move to a
smaller and smaller
area
overcrowding combined with the l of
adequate Food Water Shelter and
sanitation are creating the ideal
conditions for disase to
spread well Paul Brennan joins us live
now uh from Geneva so Paul what else did
the director General say
there yeah the the meeting's just
wrapped up we've got a unanimous
consensus agreement on the resolution
that's been passed uh they stripped out
specific specific reference to Israel
and put the emphasis on all parties uh
to ensure the immediate sustained and
unfettered access for medical and
humanitarian actors and uh humanitarian
uh activists and uh medical staff U but
the emphasis was was very clear that it
is Israel that's doing the bombardment
um and joining me at the moment in fact
is just coming back from that just come
out of the meeting is Dr Ahmed Al
mansari who is the regional director of
the uh World Health Organization for the
Eastern Mediterranean which covers Gaza
uh Dr Alan sari talk talk to me about
the significance of first all this
Gathering and also the resolution this
is only the seventh time in the 75 years
of the World Health Organization that
we've had a special uh meeting such as
this of the executive board exactly yeah
thank you Paul for giving me the
opportunity as you said this is the
seventh meeting uh of the executive
board in the history of wh uh it is a
very important Gathering and uh we have
started in the morning with a briefing
from uh uh the emergency executive
director Dr Mike Ryan uh shedding lights
on the situation there in Gaza from
Health perspectives and then it was
followed up by input from different
member states and with interventions and
uh it concluded by endorsement of the
resolution proposed resolution which is
a very you know uh important moment for
wh you know an organization that is
focusing on the public health
International public health so to me I
feel that it is really a victory of the
uh Humanity a victory to member states
in Saving and promoting health and
protecting the vulnerables and and
saving lives also what Shan through as I
was following the proceedings throughout
the day was the pain and the anguish of
healthcare workers here in Geneva
listening to the testimony of their
colleagues who are operating in Gaza and
being unable in many ways to fulfill
their duties because of the bombardment
because of the conditions that they are
under exactly our colleagues there on
the ground are really
facing a very huge difficult challenges
they are putting themselves you know on
fire by going there in the field despite
these challenges we managed to go to
some of the hospitals we managed to
evacuate some of the patients including
the 31 you know premature babies that
were evacuated two weeks back uh despite
that in fact we have lost as a un around
100 more than 110 un humanitarian staff
uh including our dear colleag League
Dima from wh who was killed last week
you know during one of the attacks yes
and and but as at the same time as
hearing the Practical impacts of that
your work is having I I have to pose the
question when the Israeli delegation at
this meeting said that frankly it would
make no difference to them what you
resolve here in Geneva what practical
impact what practical Improvement can a
resolution like this actually have on
the ground I mean at least for us uh
there is a support from from all EB
member states I mean members of of the
EB uh for us as a Who as a humanitarian
agency to go there provide the full
support and make sure that you know we
participate in protecting lives saving
lives promoting health and serving the
vulnerables uh now when it comes into
the implementation it was one of the
major uh comments by member states that
we should really be given the um the the
the the floor and the power and the
tools to go and Implement and serve
those people so it it is I agree that it
is maybe one of the challenges but I'm
sure we will be able to overcome that
challeng by the super commitment of the
member states at the very least this
adds to the international pressure on
Israel to stop killing civilians exactly
I mean that is one of the most common
request of member state to have you know
ceasefire uninterrupted continuous
ceasefire with unembedded you know um
shipments of humanitarian AIDS in
general but particularly the medical
supplies to to to the healthcare
facilities uh serving those patients and
inur people uh and uh to protect the
healthare system and the workers in the
health system either in hospitals health
centers or those uh in in the field
through mobile teams and ambulances drar
thank you very much indeed mandari thank
you very much indeed for for for joining
us uh as I say this resolution was
passed by consensus didn't go to a vote
uh Israel were there in the room they
weren't happy about it but it went
through nonetheless back to you poor
Brandon life for us there in Geneva
thank you